# Raróg
Memory allocation heuristics for tensor programs

---

## Running models using IREE

### Dependencies

- [IREE's ONNX importer](https://iree.dev/guides/deployment-configurations/cpu/#compile-a-program) (The option [onnx] might not work when running pip on ZSH)
- [IREE compiler](https://iree.dev/guides/deployment-configurations/cpu/#get-the-iree-compiler)
- [IREE runtime](https://iree.dev/guides/deployment-configurations/cpu/#get-the-iree-runtime)

### Running the models

The script [iree.sh](scripts/iree.sh) is responsible to convert a model from ONNX to torch MLIR, and compile and run this converted model using the IREE compiler. The script assumes the IREE compiler is installed inside a Python environment located in a folder called `venv` in this repository. If this is not the case, you must:
- If IREE is installed inside a Python environment, set the variable `PYTHON_VENV_PATH`
- If IREE is built from source out of the `$PATH` environment variable, set the variables `IREE_IMPORT_ONNX`, `IREE_COMPILE` and `IREE_RUN_MODULE`

The script runs the first model by default, but you can change it by setting variable `MODEL_IDX` to some value between the available models before running the script.

---

## Running models using MLIR

### Dependencies

- [torch-mlir](https://github.com/llvm/torch-mlir?tab=readme-ov-file#install-torch-mlir-snapshot)
- [MLIR](https://mlir.llvm.org/getting_started/)

### Running the models

The script [create_linalg.sh](scripts/create_linalg.sh) converts the ONNX model to torch MLIR, then lower it to linalg dialect. 

In order to be able to run the MLIR module, we need to create a main function and generate some input for the function. So, after lowering to linalg dialect, you must insert the following function and declaration at the end of the module on the `tmp/model_{idx}_linalg.mlir` file generated by the script:

```mlir
func.func @main() {
    %c0 = arith.constant 1.0 : f32
    %i0 = tensor.empty() : tensor<1x32x32x3xf32>
    %i1 = linalg.fill ins(%c0 : f32) outs(%i0 : tensor<1x32x32x3xf32>) -> tensor<1x32x32x3xf32>
    %i2 = tensor.cast %i1 : tensor<1x32x32x3xf32> to tensor<?x32x32x3xf32>
    %output = func.call @tf2onnx(%i2) : (tensor<?x32x32x3xf32>) -> tensor<?x10xf32>

    %unranked = tensor.cast %output : tensor<?x10xf32> to tensor<*xf32>
    func.call @printMemrefF32(%unranked) : (tensor<*xf32>) -> ()
    return
}

func.func private @printMemrefF32(tensor<*xf32>)
```

Then, you can lower it to the LLVM dialect using the [lower.sh](scripts/lower.sh) script, and run it using the [run.sh](scripts/run.sh) script. Both scripts assume the binaries related to MLIR (`mlir-opt` and `mlir-runner`) are in the `$PATH` environment variable. If this is not the case, define the variables `MLIR_OPT` and `MLIR_RUNNER` with their respective path. Also, the run script assumes that some MLIR libraries are within the `/usr/lib/llvm/lib` directory. Again, set the variables `MLIR_UTILS` and `MLIR_C_UTILS` to the path to the files `libmlir_runner_utils.so` and `libmlir_c_runner_utils.so`, respectively.

---

## Generating models from Nasbench

### Dependencies (Python libraries)

- tensorflow
- tqdm
- tf2onnx
- onnx

### Generating the models

The Nasbench has over 423k benchmarks but, due to space constraints, only 100 were included in this repository. The script [NASBenchConvert.py](scripts/NASBenchConvert.py) can generate the remaining models, although it will take some time to run (ONNX files are already included on the .gitignore). However, it's necessary to extract the file [nasbench_full.json.tar.gz](nasbench_data/nasbench_full.json.tar.gz) first.